



none                                                              J. Qin
Internet-Draft                                              K. Makhijani
Intended status: Informational                                   J. Dong
Expires: September 25, 2017                                     L. Qiang
                                                                 S. Peng
                                                     Huawei Technologies
                                                          March 24, 2017


Network Slicing Use Cases: Network Customization for different services
              draft-qin-netslices-usecase-customization-01

Abstract

   Network Slicing paradigm enables creation of partitioned network
   infrastructure to provide isolated network platforms for various
   service verticals.  The motivation behind Network Slicing (NS) is to
   allow deployment of new services without causing or experiencing any
   disruption due to other already running or deployed services in the
   network.  The purpose of this document is to focus on use cases that
   benefit from the usefulness of network slicing.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on September 25, 2017.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2017 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1.  Requirements Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
     1.2.  Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   2.  Network Customization for diverse services  . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.1.  Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.2.  Strict Resource Demand Concept  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
     2.3.  Network Customization Concept . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
     2.4.  Scope of use cases  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
   3.  NS Use Cases of Strict Resource Demands . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.1.  eMBB Type of NS Use Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
       3.1.1.  HD Video  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
       3.1.2.  Virtual Reality (VR)/Augmented Reality (AR) . . . . .   7
       3.1.3.  Realizing eMBB type Slices  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     3.2.  uRLLC Type of NS Use Cases  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
       3.2.1.  Industrial Operation and Inspection . . . . . . . . .   7
       3.2.2.  Remote Surgery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
       3.2.3.  Realizing uRLLC type Slices . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
       3.2.4.  Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
     3.3.  mMTC Type NS Use Cases  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
       3.3.1.  Smart Cities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
       3.3.2.  Health Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
       3.3.3.  Realizing mMTC Type Slices  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   4.  NS Use Cases of Other (Over-The-Top services) type  . . . . .  10
     4.1.  Realizing OTT Service Slices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
   5.  NS Use cases with Mixed Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
   6.  Generic Network Slicing Use Case Analysis . . . . . . . . . .  11
   7.  Conclusion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
   8.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   9.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   10. Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   11. References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
     11.1.  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
     11.2.  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13

1.  Introduction

   Network Slicing (NS) is a widely discussed paradigm and is a
   mandatory requirement in 5G to meet the diverse service requirements
   in different 5G service scenarios.  NS refers to the managed



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   partitions of physical and/or virtual network resources, network
   physical/virtual and service functions [RFC7665] that can act as an
   independent instance of a connectivity network and/or as a network
   cloud [I-D.gdmb-netslices-intro-and-ps].  In 3rd Generation
   Partnership Project (3GPP) [TR23.799] defines "Network slicing
   enables the operator to create networks customized to provide
   optimized solutions for different market scenarios which demands
   diverse requirements, e.g. in the areas of functionality, performance
   and isolation".  Draft [I-D.gdmb-netslices-intro-and-ps] defines
   network slicing in a broad context and suggests related problems and
   work areas.  Other organizations like Next Generation Mobile Networks
   (NGMN) [Network-Slicing-Concept] and ITU-T FG IMT-2020
   [FG-IMT2020-Gaps] also present their separate definitions of NS.

   To maximize resource utilization and minimize infrastructure cost,
   services will need to be deployed simultaneously, next to each other
   over a shared network as against the traditional monolithic model.
   Service operators can utilize or benefit from Network Slicing through
   multi-tenancy, enabling different customized infrastructures for
   different group of services across different network segments and
   operating them independently.  Moreover, NS is also able to guarantee
   the isolation between different network slices.  The operation of the
   data packets traversing one network slice must not adversely affect
   the service operation in other network slices sharing the same
   underlying packet network.

   This document describes use cases, where service operators can
   utilize or benefit from Network Slicing through multi-tenancy,
   enabling different customized infrastructures for different group of
   services across different network segments and operating them
   independently.  Although 5G will drive NS based deployments, the
   scope of the document is not limited to 5G; it covers example
   scenarios specified from 5G vision as well as generalized scenarios
   that can be applied to existing infrastructures.

1.1.  Requirements Language

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "*SHALL NOT*",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

   Additionally, the key words "*MIGHT*", "*COULD*", "*MAY WISH TO*",
   "*WOULD PROBABLY*", "*SHOULD CONSIDER*", and "*MUST (BUT WE KNOW YOU
   WON'T)*" in this document are to interpreted as described in RFC
   6919.






Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


1.2.  Terminology

   o  V2X (Vehicle-to-everything): Is a communication of information
      from a vehicle to any other entity that may be a user end-device,
      network element or application end point.

   o  ITS (Intelligent Transportation Systems): Considered an aspect of
      Internet of Things creates a transport network.  The network
      provides services relating to transport and traffic management
      systems through flow of information between sensors, smart devices
      and humans.

   o  Over-the-top (OTT): A service, e.g., content delivery using a CDN,
      operated by a different operator than the NSP to which the users
      of that service are attached.

   o  Industry vertical: A collection of services or tools specific to
      an industry, trade or market sector.  Also referred to as Service
      Verticals in this document.

2.  Network Customization for diverse services

2.1.  Overview

   [Note: To discuss diverse set of service attributes]

   Often services specify a broader resource requirements to perform
   normally whereas the underlying infrastructure is generally best-
   effort.  Traditionally, basic service guarantees are associated with
   resource attributes such as:

   o  Latency

   o  Bandwidth/Burst or other bit rates.

   o  Security

   In addition, other attributes as mentioned below are embedded into
   the infrastructure to improve over all quality of experience

   o  Redundancy

   o  Reliability

   o  Authentication

   More recently, other service attributes have become significant such
   as



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   o  Continuity during mobility

   o  Purpose-built network functions.

   o  Service placement

   It should be possible for the providers of any service to
   continuously evolve, adapt, and differentiate themselves through
   purpose-built infrastructures with minimal impact on network
   deployment and operations.  The motivation behind 5G Network slicing
   paradigm is exactly that.  By creating logically partitioned network
   infrastructures, isolated platforms for various industry verticals
   can be provided.  NS is envisioned to enable new service deployments
   without having to build new network infrastructures or causing
   disruptions to other already deployed services in the network.  In
   regards to NS, there are two primary characteristics, a) Strict
   demand for network resource, b) Network Customization.

2.2.  Strict Resource Demand Concept

   Several services are sensitive to response times and/or amount of
   bandwidth, e.g. realtime interactive multimedia, high bandwidth video
   feed or remote access to an enterprise network.  Failure to meet
   these criteria leads to service degradation.

   Moreover, newer scenarios from different industries are evolving due
   to these factors - a) everything connected, b) technological
   advancements in sensors, IoT, robotics and multi-media, c)
   innovations in social network interactions (including both human-
   human or human-machine).  These may impose even stricter and more
   specific set of resource and connectivity requirements on per service
   basis.  The challenge lies in utilizing common network infrastructure
   and judiciously allocating available infrastructure resources.

2.3.  Network Customization Concept

   Network slicing is enabled through customization.  Customization
   gives control to the operator (of a slice) to create, provision,
   change and consume network resources to suit their service demands.
   It requires ability to decompose resources from an underlying network
   infrastructure and logically aggregate them to tailored a part of
   network into a slice.  These customizations are not only in the
   context of the network characteristics but also include network
   functions.







Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


2.4.  Scope of use cases

   Network slicing by itself is not a new concept nor its benefits are
   limited to 5G.  While writing use cases following were considered -

   o  A Network Slicing aware infrastructure allows operators to use
      part of the network resources to meet stringent resource
      requirement as in Section 2.2 or exploit dynamic customizations as
      described in Section 2.3.  Finally, there will be scenarios that
      require both customization and strict resource requirements.

   o  The document doesn't specify whether a network slice consists of a
      single or multiple service(s). at the simplest level one service
      may correspond to a slice, however, it is possible that many
      services may become part of the same slice for the purpose of
      isolated data or context sharing.

   o  Use cases below are discussed from 2 perspectives -

      a  Newer scenarios: that should absolutely meet strict resource
         requirements, as if they use a dedicated infrastructure.  The
         example use cases are categorized further in Section 3.

      b  Existing Scenarios: Several already deployed or existing
         examples that would further benefit when deployed through
         Network Slice paradigm are discussed in Section 4.

3.  NS Use Cases of Strict Resource Demands

   The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has classified 5G
   mobile network services into three categories: Enhanced Mobile
   Broadband (eMBB), Ultra-reliable and Low-latency Communications
   (uRLLC), and Massive Machine Type Communications (mMTC).  Following
   representative use cases are divided based on these criteria.

3.1.  eMBB Type of NS Use Cases

   The scenarios in this section are discussed in regards to growth in
   data rate capacity, connection density and interactive media.

3.1.1.  HD Video

   Person-to-person or person-to-group video communication with high
   resolution (4K/8K) and more advanced capabilities will have a much
   wider usage in 5G era.  In a large stadium or live event (spots/
   concert) setting, following kind of services can be offered:

   o  Watch HD playback video or instant replay.



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   o  Stream/share live HD videos with remote friends, or photos to
      social networks.

   The connection density and date rate requirements will be high.  The
   aim is to provide video streaming and sharing services to everyone,
   regardless of the physical location, the device being used, and the
   network connection [NGMN-White-Paper].

3.1.2.  Virtual Reality (VR)/Augmented Reality (AR)

   Virtual Reality(VR)/Augmented Reality(AR) is another demanding use
   case of eMBB services.  VR/AR video streaming will have far more
   stringent network resource requirements than on-demand video content.
   It may require it's own dedicated infrastructure with enhanced
   network protocols.  The adoption of bandwidth-intensive VR/AR
   immersive services will have a direct impact on network capacity.  At
   present 360 degree videos are mostly low resolution, requiring ~25
   Mbps network bandwidth for streaming.  360 degree video is basis of
   AR/VR and as the display quality improves (retina resolution, 5K per
   eye), the bandwidth required will ramp up to several Gbps for a fully
   immersive experience.  The infrastructure required to deliver
   immersive services will be different from traditional network.  It
   may require several purpose-built hardware-assisted for video
   processing inline, dedicated immersive service capacity per user and
   perhaps an alternate transport designed specially for video services.

3.1.3.  Realizing eMBB type Slices

   A purpose-built Network Slice for video streaming shall ensure first
   and foremost, that there is always sufficient network capacity
   available for users that are not attending of the live-event (eMBB
   slice).  That is, users not subscribed to eMBB slice dedicated for
   the event, will not experience service degradation because available
   bandwidth got used up by stadium attendees.

   Since quality of experience is important but not critical; this slice
   may scale out by borrowing resources on-demand from the common
   infrastructure resource-pool and may even return dynamically to save
   costs if the bandwidth demand is low.  As such slices of these kind
   may be temporary and destroyed at the end of the event.

3.2.  uRLLC Type of NS Use Cases

3.2.1.  Industrial Operation and Inspection

   In industry area, usually remote operations need the support of the
   mobile transport networks.  Operating machinery from a control center
   at a remote site could avoid on-site hazards relating to sites like



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   waterworks, large process plants, mines, harbors, and chemical
   factory.  Tele-operating heavy machinery and other equipments with
   high accuracy in dangerous or hard to access sites requires a high-
   quality communication link between the control-center and the
   machines.

3.2.2.  Remote Surgery

   Remote surgery which enables surgeons to perform critical specialized
   medical procedures remotely, allowing their vital expertise to be
   applied globally.  Providing the correct control and feedback for the
   surgeon entails very strict requirements in terms of latency,
   reliability and security.

3.2.3.  Realizing uRLLC type Slices

   A Network slice dedicated for remote operations requires
   communication characteristics of low latency and low jitter.  To
   manipulate equipment efficiently the response time of a control
   instruction must be as short as possible.  A typical haptic control
   loop in a remote operation application requires latency to be below
   10ms [Technology-Watch-Report].

3.2.4.  Vehicle-to-everything (V2X)

   Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) refers to an intelligent transport system
   where all vehicles and infrastructure systems are interconnected with
   each other [White-paper-5GAA].  The V2X features fall into several
   categories relating to safety, navigation, infotainment, diagnostics
   and efficiency [ITS-I].  This makes for an interesting use case for
   network slices as each category is served through a different slice;
   a vehicle becomes part of 3 or 4 different logical network
   infrastructures at the same time.  For Example:

   1.  A vehicle may become part of a customized slice that serves low
       latency and zero-packet loss slice and supports a Vehicular Ad
       Hoc Network (VANET) type protocols for vehicle to vehicle
       communication and autonomous driving.  It may further have
       different access selection (short-range DSRC or commercial C-V2X)
       see [White-paper-5GAA] for details.This slice have
       characteristics of constant, low bandwidth, ultra-low latency.

   2.  A Vehicle may join an isolated slice that represents its car
       manufacturer's network for remote diagnostics, software/firmware
       upgrades to vehicle maybe performed.  The key characteristics for
       this slice is to ensure security of sensors and other devices
       through VPN style closed network.




Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 8]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   3.  An infotainment slice of vehicle provides broadband for in
       vehicle entertainment, Internet access and enhanced navigation.

3.3.  mMTC Type NS Use Cases

3.3.1.  Smart Cities

   Smart city is an integration of public infrastructures together
   through Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communications and other Internet of
   Things (IoT) solutions.  The common smart city services include:

   o  automatic metering for gas, energy, water, etc.

   o  environment monitoring for pollution, temperature, humidity, etc.

   o  light management inside buildings or even the whole city,

   o  traffic signal control, public safety alerting for natural
      disasters and emergencies.

   Building a smart city requires a variety of IOT networks to inter-
   operate together, These IOT networks are run by different departments
   with different access privileges for administration and access
   control.  For emergency services in smart city, the communication
   network must ensure the reliable communication.

3.3.2.  Health Monitoring

   E-health refers to the application that remote monitor the physical
   conditions (e.g., heart rate, pulse, blood pressure etc.), and
   accordingly take necessary medical measures remotely.  Often E-health
   service could be life-critical relate its communication network must
   be able to provide the reliable and fast but small-size of data
   exchange.  In addition, the privacy and security of user's data must
   be guaranteed.

3.3.3.  Realizing mMTC Type Slices

   mMTC involves potentially a large number of small and power-
   constrained devices, therefore, resource allocation at scale is of
   particular importance in mMTC type slices.  Furthermore, different
   kind of IoT devices may exhibit quite different traffic patterns
   e.g., uninterrupted (heart rate monitors) & periodic delay tolerant
   (temperature sensors), delay sensitive (e.g., weather forecast &
   disaster alerting), mobility mode, security awareness etc.  The mMTC
   type slices should be conscious of various requirements of scale,
   data pattern, reliability, security and energy efficient
   communications.



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017               [Page 9]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


4.  NS Use Cases of Other (Over-The-Top services) type

   Besides specific scenarios with special requirements, discussed in
   previous section, examples in this section benefit from sliced-
   network infrastructure.

   Over-The-Top(OTT) services are typical scenario of this kind.  OTT
   services are those associated with content, like video (with normal
   definition), audio, IM messages, web-digital content, and other media
   transmitted via the Internet, this kind of communications are
   expected to be pervasive and part of everyday life.  A high degree of
   applications such as VOIP, CDNs are deployed as OTT services with low
   expectations from the underlying network as communication medium and
   subsequently by building their own application infrastructure.  The
   trend toward IP (or HTTP) based content delivery may be perceived as
   an indicative of network as dumb pipe.  However, QoE is important to
   content delivery and requires coordination with the ISPs.  With new
   advances in multimedia formats and social network channels service
   offerers must adapt to varying parameters of QoE.

4.1.  Realizing OTT Service Slices

   A network slice represented by partitioned network infrastructure
   allocated for content delivery can help create new opportunities for
   both network operators and content providers.  [RFC6770] provides
   many use cases relating to ISP Handling of third-party content.
   Following examples may be considered: - Content Service Providers
   (CSPs) could lease a CDN slice and operate it as a well coordinated
   CDN infrastructure of content awareness, optimally placed servers &
   proprietary optimization logic functions (different for live video
   (real-time) and on-demand (caching)).  - VOIP is a peer to peer
   service and requires CBR across multiple domains.  If a VOIP-slice
   specification is from a well-known template that is universally
   understood then a low cost, reliable end-to-end VOIP service can be
   offered without intense provisioning of the transport.

5.  NS Use cases with Mixed Requirements

   Along another dimension, many services will have combination of hard
   resource constraints that were discussed in Section 3 such as both
   eMBB and uRLL.  Some examples are as follows - As described in
   Section 3.1.2, AV/VR has high bandwidth requirement but 'interactive'
   VR/AR applications are extremely sensitive to delay and require very
   low end-to-end latency (~20ms).  - While operating machinery
   remotely, the primary communication characteristics are low latency
   and low jitter but in case of video assisted maintenance, the
   bandwidth also becomes important.  In fact, most of the applications
   have mixed requirements from the network infrastructure.



Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017              [Page 10]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


6.  Generic Network Slicing Use Case Analysis

   o  Network Operator View: It is a daunting task to manage ever
      increasing number of services with their customized resource
      requirements.  A logical division of networks shall allow simpler
      orchestration, management and operation both for service operator
      and network operators.

   o  Opportunities in Industry verticals: With an independent control
      of services and associated network resources, Industry verticals
      can test and deploy services quicker.

   o  5G context: While the scope of document does not limit to 5G, it
      is important to take into consideration that 5G blurs the boundary
      between fixed and mobile networks. some related factors are (1)
      end-device access will be mainly radio or wireless but very well
      be fixed (2) end-device is simultaneously associated with those
      many access networks (3) transport could be IP or non-IP based. 5G
      will also be early adopter of Network Slicing in its architecture,
      therefore, many scenarios from 5G will be prioritized.

   o  Heterogeneous resources: Different kind of resources maybe
      required in difference slices.  Each network slice appears to its
      users as an independent, dedicated private network which is
      impervious to anything including the heterogeneous resources that
      is happening on any of the other network slices, a high degree of
      isolation on data plane is needed.

   o  Transport Context: the transport network should give a customized
      topology built for a different network slices, and provide the
      network resources and performance characteristics like bandwidth,
      latency, jitter, security, availability, and etc that required by
      the corresponding slices.

7.  Conclusion

   Many emerging services, together with the existing and evolving
   services will be carried out in the context of 5G network slicing.
   The goal of 5G is to support various service scenarios which have
   very diverse and strict demands from the network infrastructure.

   These scenarios require networks to be more flexible and scalable to
   support customized service requirements and diverse performance
   requirements with a single network infrastructure.  Specifically, the
   current transport network architecture is not as flexible or scalable
   to provide the required network customizations and the resource
   assurances for different type of use cases at simultaneously.




Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017              [Page 11]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   Network slicing is a way to to support service or industry verticals
   over the same physical network such that each network slice appears
   to its tenant as an independent, dedicated private network and is
   impervious to anything that is happening on any of the other network
   slices.  For services which do not have special requirements from the
   network; slicing provides an effective way for those to coexist along
   with the services having strict requirements.

8.  Security Considerations

   The security considerations apply to each slice.  In addition general
   security considerations of underlying infrastructure whether isolated
   communication with in a slice apply for links using wireless
   technologies.

9.  IANA Considerations

   There are no IANA actions requested at this time.

10.  Acknowledgements

   Thanks to Stewart Bryant for providing details for several use cases.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.gdmb-netslices-intro-and-ps]
              Galis, A., Dong, J., kiran.makhijani@huawei.com, k.,
              Bryant, S., Boucadair, M., and P. Martinez-Julia, "Network
              Slicing - Introductory Document and Revised Problem
              Statement", draft-gdmb-netslices-intro-and-ps-02 (work in
              progress), February 2017.

   [RFC6770]  Bertrand, G., Ed., Stephan, E., Burbridge, T., Eardley,
              P., Ma, K., and G. Watson, "Use Cases for Content Delivery
              Network Interconnection", RFC 6770, DOI 10.17487/RFC6770,
              November 2012, <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6770>.

   [RFC7665]  Halpern, J., Ed. and C. Pignataro, Ed., "Service Function
              Chaining (SFC) Architecture", RFC 7665,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7665, October 2015,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7665>.








Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017              [Page 12]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


11.2.  Informative References

   [FG-IMT2020-Gaps]
              "FG IMT-2020: Report on Standards Gap Analysis",
              <http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-T/focusgroups/imt-2020>.

   [ITS-I]    "Intelligent Transportation Systems and the IETF",
              <https://www.ietfjournal.org/intelligent-transportation-
              systems-and-the-ietf>.

   [Network-Slicing-Concept]
              Next Generation Mobile Network Alliance, "Description of
              Network Slicing Concept", January 2016,
              <https://www.ngmn.org/uploads/
              media/160113_Network_Slicing_v1_0.pdf>.

   [NGMN-White-Paper]
              Next Generation Mobile Network Alliance, "5G White Paper",
              March 2015, <https://www.ngmn.org/uploads/media/
              NGMN_5G_White_Paper_V1_0.pdf>.

   [Technology-Watch-Report]
              ITU-T, "Technology Watch Report, The Tactile Internet",
              August 2014, <http://ow.ly/Ubmow>.

   [TR23.799]
              International Telecommunications Union, "Study on
              Architecture for Next Generation System", SA2 Study 3GPP-
              TR23.799, December 2017,
              <http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/23_series/23.799/>.

   [White-paper-5GAA]
              5G Automotive Association, "The Case for Cellular V2X for
              Safety and Cooperative Driving", November 2016,
              <http://www.5gaa.org/
              pdfs/5GAA-whitepaper-23-Nov-2016.pdf>.

Authors' Addresses

   Jun Qin
   Huawei Technologies
   Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
   Beijing   100095

   Email: qinjun4@huawei.com






Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017              [Page 13]

Internet-Draft        Use cases for Network Slicing           March 2017


   Kiran Makhijani
   Huawei Technologies
   2890 Central Expressway
   Santa Clara  CA 95050

   Email: kiran.makhijani@huawei.com


   Jie Dong
   Huawei Technologies
   Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
   Beijing   100095

   Email: jie.dong@huawei.com


   Li Qiang
   Huawei Technologies
   Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
   Beijing   100095

   Email: qiangli3@huawei.com


   Shuping Peng
   Huawei Technologies
   Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
   Beijing   100095

   Email: pengshuping@huawei.com





















Qin, et al.            Expires September 25, 2017              [Page 14]
